refstack-client
===============

refstack-client is a command line utility that allows you to execute Tempest
test runs based on configurations you specify.  When finished running Tempest
it can send the passed test data to a RefStack API server.

**Environment setup**

We've created an "easy button" for Ubuntu, Centos, RHEL and openSuSe.

1. Make sure you have ``git`` installed
2. Get the refstack client: ``git clone https://github.com/openstack/refstack-client``
3. Go into the refstack-client directory: ``cd refstack-client``
4. Run the "easy button" setup: ``./setup_env``

   **Options:**

   a. -c option allows to specify SHA of commit or branch in Tempest repository
   which will be installed.

   b. -t option allows to specify tag in Tempest repository which will be installed.
   For example: execute ``./setup_env -t tags/3`` to install Tempest tag-3.

   c. By default, Tempest will be installed from commit
   8d468c8332b1d0d7176c285de4cedfa589a54a23 (May 7, 2016).

**Usage**

1. Prepare a tempest configuration file that is customized to your cloud
   environment.

2. Go into the refstack-client directory::

       cd ~/refstack-client

3. Source to use the correct Python environment::

       source .venv/bin/activate

4. Validate your setup by running a short test::

       ./refstack-client test -c <Path of the tempest configuration file to use> -v -- tempest.api.identity.admin.v2.test_roles

   or ::

       ./refstack-client test -c <Path of the tempest configuration file to use> -v -- tempest.api.identity.v2.test_token


5. Run tests.

   To run the entire API test set::

       ./refstack-client test -c <Path of the tempest configuration file to use> -v

   To run only those tests specified in a DefCore defined test file::

       ./refstack-client test -c <Path of the tempest configuration file to use> -v --test-list <Path or URL of test list>

   For example::

       ./refstack-client test -c ~/tempest.conf -v --test-list \
       "https://refstack.openstack.org/api/v1/guidelines/2016.01/tests?target=platform&type=required&alias=true&flag=false"

   This will run only the test cases required by the 2016.01 guidelines
   that have not been flagged.

   **Note:**

   a. Adding the ``-v`` option will show the Tempest test result output.
   b. Adding the ``--upload`` option will have your test results be uploaded to the
      default RefStack API server or the server specified by ``--url``.
   c. Adding the ``--test-list`` option will allow you to specify the file path or URL of
      a test list text file. This test list should contain specific test cases that
      should be tested. Tests lists passed in using this argument will be normalized
      with the current Tempest evironment to eliminate any attribute mismatches.
   d. Adding the ``--url`` option will allow you to change where test results should
      be uploaded.
   e. Adding the ``-r`` option with a string will prefix the JSON result file with the
      given string (e.g. ``-r my-test`` will yield a result file like
      'my-test-0.json').
   f. Adding ``--`` enables you to pass arbitary arguments to the Tempest runner.
      After the first ``--``, all other subsequent arguments will be passed to
      the Tempest runner as is. This is mainly used for quick verification of the
      target test cases. (e.g. ``-- tempest.api.identity.v2.test_token``)

   Use ``./refstack-client test --help`` for the full list of arguments.

6. Upload your results.

   If you previously ran a test with refstack-client without the ``--upload``
   option, you can upload your results to a RefStack API server by using the
   following command::

       ./refstack-client upload <Path of results file>

   The results file is a JSON file generated by refstack-client when a test has
   completed. This is saved in .tempest/.testrepository. When you use the
   ``upload`` command, you can also override the RefStack API server uploaded to
   with the ``--url`` option.

   Alternatively, you can use the ``upload-subunit`` command to upload results
   using an existing subunit file. This requires that you pass in the Keystone
   endpoint URL for the cloud that was tested to generate the subunit data::

       ./refstack-client upload-subunit --keystone-endpoint http://some.url:5000/v3 <Path of subunit file>

   **Note:**

   a. Adding ``-i <path-to-private-key>`` option will upload test results with
      a digital signature. For signing, refstack-client uses private RSA keys.
      The OpenSSH format of RSA keys is supported, so you can just use your SSH
      key '~/.ssh/id-rsa' or generate a new one with ``ssh-keygen -b 4096``.
      For now, signed test results can be considered private.

7. List uploaded test set.

   You can list previously uploaded data from a RefStack API server by using
   the following command::

       ./refstack-client list --url <URL of the RefStack API server>


**Tempest Hacking**

By default, refstack-client installs Tempest into the ``.tempest`` directory.
If you're interested in working with Tempest directly for debugging or
configuration, you can activate a working Tempest environment by
switching to that directory and using the installed dependencies.

1. ``cd .tempest``
2. run tempest with ``./run_tempest.sh -V`` or ``source ./.venv/bin/activate``
   and run tests manually with ``testr``.

This will make the entire Tempest environment available for you to run,
including the ``run_tempest`` script and ``testr``.
